DOC-3237-update-expressions-doc (#2082)
harness/developer-hub: docs/platform/12_Variables-and-Expressions/harness-variables.md

The correct way to use a Java method with a variable is `<+<+expression>.methodName()>`.

For example, let's use a variable `myvar` using the methods `substring` and `indexOf` with value `Hello`. You can use these methods like this: 

> <+<+stage.variables.myvar>.substring(<+<+stage.variables.myvar>.indexOf("e")>)>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<+<+stage.variables.myvar>.substring(<+<+stage.variables.myvar>.indexOf("e")>)>`
```

![](./static/harness-variables-14.png)

> You can use the expression in nearly any setting in the pipeline editor.

Reviewer: Can we say "any setting" instead of "nearly any setting". Nearly sound ambiguous. Makes me wonder if there are any cases where you can't use expressions.

You don't need to build the expression yourself. Harness provides multiple places where you can copy the variable expression.

For example, you can click the copy button in a pipeline execution to get the expressions of output settings and values.

![](./static/harness-variables-15.png)

When building a pipeline in Pipeline Studio, you can copy the FQN of a setting using **Variables**.

![](./static/harness-variables-16.png)

### Stage level and pipeline level expressions

You can create variables at the pipeline and stage level and reference them using the FQN expressions within their scope.

Click **Variables** in the pipeline to view all the inputs and copy their expressions.

<docimage path={require('./static/21a3df06a049a40a2787e3f0e929617974284e0afd8a86ebe8890d8a4d9c871d.png')} width="60%" height="60%" title="Click to view full size image" />  

> These variable expressions follow these formats:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pipeline and stage level variable expressions follow these formats:
```

- **Pipeline-level** expressions use the format `<+pipeline.variables.VAR_NAME>`.

> - **Stage-level** expressions you can use these formats:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Stage-level** expressions use these formats:
```

  
Command completed with ExitCode (0)
```
### Input and output variables

You can reference the inputs and outputs of any part of your pipeline.

* **Input variable expressions** reference the values and setting selections you made *in your pipeline*.
* **Output variable expressions** reference *the results* of a pipeline's execution.

#### Input variables in the pipeline

You can copy and reference the input settings for steps using the pipeline **Variables** panel.

<docimage path={require('./static/2d3f480ea623c75e83c074a1e8a6d90d1fb1eccc1d9c3bcda1184179483ef529.png')} width="60%" height="60%" title="Click to view full size image" />  

> These variables follow this format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input variables follow this format:
```

> - Stage-level: `<+execution.steps.STEP_Id.SETTING>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Stage-level**: `<+execution.steps.STEP_Id.SETTING>`.
```

> - Pipeline-level: `<+pipeline.stages.STAGE_Id.spec.execution.steps.STEP_Id.SETTING>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Pipeline-level**: `<+pipeline.stages.STAGE_Id.spec.execution.steps.STEP_Id.SETTING>`.
```

* Name:

  ```
  <+pipeline.stages.k8s_deployment.spec.execution.steps.rolloutDeployment.deploymentInfoOutcome.serverInstanceInfoList[0].podIP>
  ```  
* Value: `10.100.0.6`

### Using expressions in settings

You can use Harness variable expressions in most settings.

When you select the **Expression** option for a setting, you can type `<+` and the list of available variable expressions appears.

![](./static/harness-variables-19.png)

Select a variable expression to use it as the value for this setting.

At runtime, Harness will replace the variable with the runtime value.

You can also paste expressions that don't appear. For example, expressions that reference settings in previous stages.

For more information, go to [Fixed Values, Runtime Inputs, and Expressions](../20_References/runtime-inputs.md).

## Expression guidelines and boundaries

Review the following guidelines to avoid errors when using variable expressions.

### Scope

When Harness automatically presents variable expressions in a setting, it only exposes the expressions that can be used in that setting. You will not see a variable expression available in a setting where it cannot be used.

> This does not prevent a user from trying to use an expression outside of its scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This does not prevent you from trying to use an expression outside of its scope.
```

> Here's some guidelines to help you use expressions successfully:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some guidelines to help you use expressions successfully:
```

- Don't refer to a step's expressions within the same step.
- Don't refer to the settings for a subsequent step in a previous step.
- Don't refer to inputs or outputs of a stage's **Execution** tab in the stage's **Service** or **Environment** tabs. 

>   - The execution takes place after the service and environment settings are used, and so expressions used in the execution are not resolved during the running of the service and environment sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The execution takes place after the service and environment settings are used. So, the expressions used in the execution cannot be resolved when running the service and environment sections.
```

:::note Exception
You can reference the environment name variable, `<+env.name>`, in a service's Values YAML file, specs, and config files.
:::

### Only use expressions after they can be resolved

When Harness encounters an expression during pipeline execution, it tries to resolve the expression with the information it has at that point in the execution. Consequently, you can use an expression only after Harness has the required information. If you try to use an expression before Harness has its information, it will fail.

In this illustration, you can see how the information in each section of the stage is referenced.

<docimage path={require('./static/harness-variables-20.png')} width="80%" height="80%" title="Click to view full size image" />

Here is how you reference the information in each of these sections.

* **Service expressions** can only be resolved after Harness has progressed through the **Service** section of the pipeline.

> 	+ Consequently, service expressions can be used in **Infrastructure** and **Execution**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	+ Consequently, service expressions can be used in the **Infrastructure** and **Execution** sections.
```

```
### Variable names across the pipeline

> Variables names must be unique within the same stage. You can use same variable names in different stages of the same pipeline or other pipelines, but not within the same stage.

Reviewer: Variable names

When using a complex expression, ensure the expression is wrapped within `<+ >`.

For example:

```
<+ <+trigger.payload.pull_request.diff_url.contains("triggerNgDemo")> || <+trigger.payload.repository.owner.name> == "wings-software">
```

### Ternary operators

When using ternary conditional `?:` operators, do not use spaces between the operators and values. Ensure the expression is wrapped within `<+ >`.

> For example, `<+condition ? <value_if_true> : <value_if_false>>` will not work. 

Reviewer: I think you should keep "Use `<+condition?<value_if_true>:<value_if_false>>` instead." This was a doc update request based on a customer issue.

### <+pipeline.sequenceId>

The incremental sequential Id for the execution of a pipeline. A `<+pipeline.executionId>` does not change, but a `<+pipeline.sequenceId>` is incremented with each run of the pipeline.

The first run of a pipeline receives a sequence Id of 1 and each subsequent execution is incremented by 1.

For CD pipelines, the Id is named execution. For CI pipelines, the Id is named builds.

![](./static/harness-variables-26.png)

> You can use `<+pipeline.sequenceId>` to tag a CI build when you push it to a repo, and then use `<+pipeline.sequenceId>` to pull the same build and tag in a subsequent stage. For an example, go to the [Build and test on a Kubernetes cluster build infrastructure tutorial](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/ci-pipelines/kubernetes-build-farm/) and [Integrating CD with other Harness modules](/docs/continuous-delivery/get-started/integrating-CD-other-modules).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `<+pipeline.sequenceId>` to tag a CI build when you push it to a repository, and then use `<+pipeline.sequenceId>` to pull the same build and tag in a subsequent stage. For an example, go to the [Build and test on a Kubernetes cluster build infrastructure tutorial](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/ci-pipelines/kubernetes-build-farm/) and [Integrating CD with other Harness modules](/docs/continuous-delivery/get-started/integrating-CD-other-modules).
```
